.TH imapget.conf 5 "Feb 2015" "imapget version 1.0"
.SH NAME
$HOME/.imapget.conf 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file 
.B $HOME/.imapget.conf
or 
.B /etc/imapget.conf
is read by
.BR imapget (1)
at startup or after receiving SIGHUP.  This file is used to configure
imapget's behaviour and to specify what servers it should connect to
for mail retrieval.  See EXAMPLES at the end for an example of 
a imapget configuration file.
.PP
The configuration file consists of two sections; the first is the global
parameters section, which is followed by one or more server-specific 
parameter sections.  Some values may only appear in the global section;
others simply acts as defaults for server sections, and may be overridden
inside of a server specific section.  Keywords that are only valid in
the global context are denoted with (global only).  In addition,
some keywords are mandatory in the server section - these are denoted
with (required).
.PP
Valid entries are:

.B runforeground (global only)
.RS 
Do not attempt to detach from the current terminal and run as a background
process.  imapget will stay in the foreground until it terminates.
.RE

.B deliver-mechanism 
.I mechanism
.I "parameter"
.B (global only)
.RS 
Indicates the method of local message delivery to use.  Valid entries
for 
.I mechanism
are pipeto, mbox, or maildir.  The 
.I parameter
field specified the program to pipe the message to, the mbox to deliver
to, or the maildir to deliver to, respectively.
.RE

.B deliver-maxconcurrency 
.I maximimum processes
.B (global only)
.RS
Specifies the maximum number of deliveries that can be in progress
at once.  This primarily affects the pipeto delivery mechanism, where
it limits the number of delivery processes that can be running at once.  
Any messages that need to be delivered while the maximum number of 
processes has been reached will be enqueued and processed when some
of the delivery processes exit.
.RE

.B log-syslog (global only)
.RS
Indicates that imapget should use syslog for logging output.
.RE

.B log-file
.I filename
.B (global only)
.RS
Indicates that imapget should log to the file path specified by
.I filename.
.RE

.B verbose 
.I verbosity-level (global only)
.RS
Sets the level of verbosity in imapget's logging.  1 is quiet, 2 is 
normal, 3 includes a dump of all traffic between the client and the server.
A level of 2 is normally what imapget runs with, and it is the default.
.RE

.B maximum-consecutive-failures
.I failure-count
.B (global only)
.RS
Sets the maximum number of consecutive connection errors a server can
have before it will be disabled.  Set to 0 for unlimited.  Otherwise,
when this limit is reached the server will be disabled for the 
amount of time indicated by the 
.B failure-sleep
configuration keyword.
.RE

.B failure-sleep
.I seconds
.B (global only)
.RS
When a server is disabled due to too many consecutive connection failures
(see 
.B maximum-connection-failures
above), this argument specifies how long the server should be disabled for
before imapget tries again.
.RE

.B keepalive
.I seconds
.B (global only)
.RS
Indicates how long imapget should allow a connection to idle before it sends
a keepalive request in order to verify the connection is still functional.
.RE

.B server
.I hostname:port
.B (global only)
.RS
This starts a server-specific section of the configuration file.  
The argument indicates what the hostname and port of the IMAP server
is; if it is running on the standard port (143), the
.I :port
section can be omitted.
.RE

.B imaps-server
.I hostname:port
.B (global only)
.RS
This starts a server-specific section of the configuration file for a
server using IMAPS.  The port can be omitted if the standard imaps
port (993) is being used.  Note this has no effect on whether or not
a regular IMAP connection will use SSL; regular IMAP connections will
always switch to SSL if the server supports it and imapget was compiled
with SSL support.
.RE

.B username
.I username
.B (required, unless the "authentication preauth" keyword is used)
.RS
This specifies the username to be used for authenticating with the server.
This field is mandatory, unless the preauth keyword appears in this server
section.
.RE

.B pollinterval
.I seconds
.RS
This indicates what the polling interval should be for servers that do
not support the IMAP IDLE extension (such as Netscape's IMAP server).
.RE

.B use-poll
.B (server section only)
.RS
This specifies that polling instead of asynchronous message notification
should be used for this server.  imapget will automatically fall back
to polling in such cases, but this keyword is required to prevent
it from emitting a warning.
.RE

.B password
.I password
.B (required, unless the "authentication preauth" keyword is used)
.RS
This specifies the password to be used for authenticating with the server.
This field is mandatory, unless the preauth keyword appears in this
server section.
.RE

.B checkfolder
.I folder-name
.B (at least one of these must appear in a server section)
.RS
Specifies a folder to be checked for mail on this server.
.RE

.B authentication
.I authentication-type
.B (required, unless preauth is used)
.RS
Specifies the authentication type to be used with the server.  Valid
valus are login, cram-md5, digest-md5, and preauth.  login
is for regular plaintext LOGIN authentication, cram-md5 and digest-md5
use those respective challenge/response protocols, and preauth indicates
the server is configured to preauthenticate and no credentials are required.
Note that imapget will refuse to autonegotiate a plaintext authentication;
if you really want this, put authenticate login in your configuration file.
.RE

.B move-read
.I folder
.I target-folder
.RS
Indicates that read mail from 
.I folder
should be moved to 
.B target-folder
after it has been retrieved.  '*' specifies a wildcard that will match
all folders that are not explicitly specified with a move-read, 
leave-read or delete-read keyword of their own.
.RE

.B delete-read
.I folder
.RS
Indicates that read mail from
.I folder
should be deleted after it has been retrieved.  '*' specifies a wildcard 
that will match all folders that are not explicity specified with a
move-read, leave-read or delete-read keyword of their own.
.RE

.B leave-read
.I folder
.RS
Indicates that read mail from
.I folder
should be left in the folder.  '*' specifies a wildcard that will
match all folders that are not explicitly specified with a move-read,
leave-read or delete-read keyword of their own.
.RE

.B timeout
.I seconds
.RS
Indicates that the server should be given
.I seconds
seconds to reply to commands before imapget drops the connection
and tries again.

.B use-ssl
.RS
Indicates that this server should use SSL authentication.  This means imapget
will try to connect on port 993 (imaps) instead of 143, unless you override
it with a port number in the server definition.  This has no impact on
if imapget will start an SSL connection on a regular IMAP connection through
port 143; it will always do so if the server supports it.
.SH EXAMPLES
.Vb 3
.Bd -literal
# Example imapget.conf file.
.nf
# First come global defaults.
timeout 30         # set to 0 for never
deliver-mechanism pipeto "procmail"
deliver-maxconcurrency 5 # max 5 local deliveries at a time
#deliver-mechanism mbox "/var/spool/mail/me"
#deliver-mechanism maildir "/home/me/Maildir/"

#log-syslog
log-file "logfile"

#delete-read * # default action is to delete all read mail.  specifying
               # a non-wildcard value (eg folder-specific) -read action
               # here is an error.  

#move-read * oldmail
leave-read * 
#runforeground
# Allow a maximum of 5 consecutive connection failures.
maximum-consecutive-failures 5
# After 5 consecutive connection failures, disable the
# server for 30 seconds.
failure-sleep 30
# global defaults only take effect after they appear in the file.
# They MUST appear at the top of the file.  
# 
server mail.myisp.com:143 #port optional
  username me
  password mypassword
  authentication login 
  checkfolder INBOX 
  checkfolder general-announce
  move-read INBOX oldmail # move retrieved mail from INBOX to oldmail
  delete-read *           # delete all other read mail.
  timeout 60              # this server is slow
endserver

server mail.myisp2.com 
  username me
  password mypassword
  authentication cram-md5
  checkfolder INBOX
  checkfolder evil
  delete-read *
endserver

imaps-server mail.myisp3.com 
  authentication preauth
  checkfolder INBOX
  # since we don't specify what to do with read mail,
  # the global default applies and it is left in the folder.
  use-poll                 # server does not support IDLE
endserver
.Ed
.SH SIGNALS
SIGHUP to reread configuration and reconnect to all servers.
.RE
SIGTERM to exit gracefully.
.SH NOTES
Delivering to an mbox is a risky business.  There are several locking 
mechanisms used by various mail agents, and there is no consensus on
which should be used.  Additionally, many of these methods won't work
properly over NFS.  Basically, you shouldn't use mbox, and if you do,
there is plenty of opportunity for things to go wrong with the result 
being your mbox gets corrupted, but this is true for all programs that
try to use mboxes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR imapget(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B imapget
was written by Steven Young <sdyoung@miranda.org>.
